(dmb-agenda)=
# Developer Membership Board agenda

```{note}
[Page source](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard/Agenda)

Do we want to include this page? It will likely go out of date quickly unless
we can auto-generate it.

Would a wiki page on Discourse be a better approach, to mirror the
[Ubuntu Membership application](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-membership-meeting-schedule/55968)
process?
```
	
This page records the agenda for the next meeting of the Ubuntu
{ref}`Developer Membership Board <dmb>` (DMB).

## How to apply

**Before putting yourself on the schedule, read this section in its entirety.**

See {ref}`dmb-application` for full instructions. This section only describes
the administrative matter of arranging your application meeting.

To apply for upload permissions:

1. Pick a suitable application meeting slot.

   * It must be at least one week away.

   * The DMB will consider a **maximum of one** applicant per meeting regardless
     of the type of application, so meeting slots that already have an
     applicant are not available.  
1. Add your name to the agenda below, linking to your application page.  

1. Announce your application and selected meeting date by writing an email to
   the [`devel-permissions@` list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/devel-permissions),
   which includes:  

   * The link to your wiki page application.  
   * The date of your meeting date and a link to the agenda.

Meetings are held fortnightly on Mondays via Google Meet, or on IRC by request
in `#ubuntu-meeting` on Libera.


## DMB meetings for 2025

| Date | Time (UTC) | Chair/backup | Requested application review (max 1 per meeting) |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| *2025-01-06* | *16:00* |  | [*Ubuntu MOTU*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/liushuyu-011/MOTUApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Zixing Liu`](https://launchpad.net/~liushuyu-011) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-January/002677.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/01/06/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:21))* |
| *2025-01-16* | *ML* |  | [*Ubuntu Contributing Developer*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/skia/ContributingDeveloperApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Florent 'Skia' Jacquet`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/skia) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-January/002701.html))* |
| *2025-01-20* | *19:00* |  | [*Ubuntu MOTU*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LeoSilvab/MOTUApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Le√¥nidas S. Barbosa`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LeoBarbosa) ([non-quorate](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-January/002708.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/01/20/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:01))* |
| *2025-02-03* | *16:00* |  | [*sosreport PPU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/arif-ali/sosreportPerPackageUploadApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Arif Ali`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/arif-ali) ([not passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-February/002736.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/02/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:02))* |
| *2025-02-17* | *19:00* |  | [*Ubuntu MOTU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/pushkarnk/MOTUApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Pushkar Kulkarni`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/pushkarnk) ([not passed\*](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-February/002743.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/02/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:03))* |
| *2025-03-03* | *16:00* |  | [*Ubuntu Core Developer*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/adrien/CoreDevApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Adrien Nader`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/adrien) ([passed](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/03/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:02), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/03/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:05))* |
| *2025-03-17* | *19:00* |  | [*Ubuntu Core Developer*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mkukri/CoreDevApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Mate Kukri`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mkukri`) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-March/002800.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/03/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:01))* |
| *2025-03-27* | *ML* |  | [*Ubuntu Contributing Developer*](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/pragyansh-chaturvedi-membership-application/56907) *by [{spellexception}`Pragyansh Chaturvedi`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/r41k0u) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-March/002810.html))* |
| *2025-03-31* | *16:00* |  | [*kernel-dkms PPU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gagath/DKMSUploadApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Agathe Porte`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gagath) ([not passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-April/002832.html), matrix logs unavailable)* |
| *2025-04-14* | *19:00* |  | [*kernel-dkms PPU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassimilianoPellizzer/DkmsUploadApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Massimiliano Pellizzer`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassimilianoPellizzer) ([not passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-April/002832.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/04/14/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:13))* |
| *2025-04-28* | *16:00* |  | [*rasdaemon PPU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tai271828/PPUApplicationRasdaemon) *by [{spellexception}`Taihsiang Ho`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tai271828) (not considered, [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/04/28/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:03))* |
| 2025-05-12 | 19:00 |  |  |
| 2025-05-26 | 16:00 |  |  |
| 2025-06-09 | 19:00 |  |  |
| *2025-06-23* | *16:00* |  | [*sos(report) PPU Application*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/arif-ali/sosreportPerPackageUploadApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Arif Ali`](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/arif-ali) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-June/002846.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/06/23/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:01))* |
| 2025-07-07 | 19:00 |  |  |
| 2025-07-21 | 13:00 |  | (moved to 2025-07-18 in person) |
| *2025-08-04* | *15:30* |  | [*Ubuntu Core Developer*](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RikMills/CoreDevApplication) *by [{spellexception}`Rik Mills`](https://launchpad.net/~rikmills) (IRC) ([passed](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-August/002862.html), [logs](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2025/08/04/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t15:33))* |
| **2025-08-18** | **13:00** |  | [**PPU application (google guest package set)**](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kajiya/PPU-application) **by [{spellexception}`Chlo Smith/kajiya`](https://launchpad.net/~kajiya)** |
| 2025-09-01 | 15:30 |  |  |
| 2025-09-15 | 13:00 |  |  |
| 2025-09-29 | 15:30 |  |  |
| 2025-10-13 | 13:00 |  |  |
| 2025-10-27 | 15:30 |  |  |
| 2025-11-10 | 13:00 |  |  |
| 2025-11-24 | 15:30 |  |  |
| 2025-12-08 | 13:00 |  |  |
| 2025-12-22 | 15:30 |  |  |

The calendar is also available on the [Ubuntu Fridge](https://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars/fridge/).

Next meeting: 2025-08-04 15:30 UTC; chair: TBD, backup: TBD


### Agenda

* Deferred Items from Last Meeting

  * {spellexception}`tsimonq2` to briefly discuss confusion between the DMB and UMB on who should
    be reviewing a specific application, and their followup ping to the UMB.

  * {spellexception}`tsimonq2` and {spellexception}`rbasak` to provide a summary of the Matrix-related discussion in
    the TB meeting as agreed there. Do we want to move meetings to Matrix?

  * {spellexception}`tsimonq2` to double-check whether [`https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-March/002810.html`](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2025-March/002810.html)
    was the right decision with the wider board

* Long-term action items (do not need to be mentioned in regular meetings)

  * (unassigned) `pkgset` tooling needs full documentation and automation

  * {spellexception}`paelzer` to better document what we expect applicants to
    know, at last an initial draft and then pass over to {spellexception}`rbasak`
    (will be carried until mentioned)

  * (unassigned) to write up a proposal for upload access expiry following some
    period of disuse (will be carried until mentioned)

  * (unassigned) Edubuntu seed <--> `pkgset` (carried over)

* Review of previous action items

  * *ACTION:* {spellexception}`teward` to resolve the wiki / Discourse process
    ambiguity (carried over)

  * *ACTION:* {spellexception}`tsimonq2` to reach out to
    {spellexception}`Agathe Porte (gagath)` to determine
    if they are willing to do their application via Matrix meeting instead of
    IRC meeting. (presuming {spellexception}`tsimonq2` will be present)

  * *ACTION:* {spellexception}`tsimonq2` to announce {spellexception}`Mate Kukri's`
    application success and assign permissions.

* Application review

* Outstanding [mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/)
  requests to assign

* Open [TB bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-community/+bugs?field.searchtext=TB%2FDMB)

* Select a chair for the next meeting (next from [DMB members](https://launchpad.net/~developer-membership-board/+members))

* AOB


### Application documentation

* {ref}`ubuntu-developers-contributing` applications
* {ref}`Per-Package Uploaders <ubuntu-developers-per-package>` applications
* {ref}`SRU developers <ubuntu-developers-sru>` applications
* {ref}`Ubuntu Core Developers (core-dev) <ubuntu-developers-core-dev>` applications
* {ref}`MOTU <ubuntu-developers-motu>` applications
* {ref}`Ubuntu Developers (from delegated teams) <ubuntu-developers-delegated>` applications


### After the meeting

* Make sure actions were assigned for concluded applications (whether successful
  or unsuccessful). Necessary actions and their checklists are documented at
  [Actions after a successful application](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard/KnowledgeBase#Actions_after_a_successful_application)
  and [Actions after an unsuccessful application](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard/KnowledgeBase#Actions_after_an_unsuccessful_application).

* Update the agenda

If adding agenda items, place them as subitems of the appropriate major item
above. Please also prefix your entry with a number indicating the order of
application.

Bot instructions: [Moot Bot](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot)

### Meeting logs

Logs from previous meetings may be found at
[meetingology logs](http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/),
[DMB meeting logs](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard/Logs),
[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/](http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/) or via
[Moot Bot](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot), or using the direct
links below for the current calendar year:


### Previous meeting logs

```{note}
Should we remove these, or add 2023/24?
```

#### **2022**

|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| [2022-01-10](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/01/10/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-01-24](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/01/24/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-02-07](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/02/07/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-02-21](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/02/21/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-03-07](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/03/07/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-03-31](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/03/21/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |  |
| [2022-04-04](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/04/04/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-04-18](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/04/18/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-05-02](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/05/02/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-05-16](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/05/16/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-05-30](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/05/30/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-06-13](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/06/13/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-06-27](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/06/27/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |
| [2022-07-11](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/07/11/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-07-25](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/07/25/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-08-08](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/08/08/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-08-22](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/08/22/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-09-05](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/09/05/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-09-19](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/09/19/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |  |
| [2022-10-03](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/10/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-10-17](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/10/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-10-31](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/10/31/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-11-14](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/11/14/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-11-28](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/11/28/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-12-12](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/12/12/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2022-12-26](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2022/12/26/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |


#### **2021**

|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| [2021-01-11](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/01/11/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-01-25](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/01/25/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-02-08](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/02/08/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-02-22](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/02/22/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-03-08](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/03/08/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-03-22](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/03/22/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |  |
| [2021-04-05](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/04/05/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-04-19](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/04/19/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-05-03](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/05/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-05-17](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/05/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-05-31](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/05/31/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-06-14](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/06/14/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-06-28](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/06/28/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |
| [2021-07-12](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/07/12/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-07-26](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/07/26/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-08-09](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/08/09/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-08-23](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/08/23/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-09-06](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/09/06/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-09-20](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/09/20/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |  |
| [2021-10-04](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/10/04/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-10-18](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/10/18/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-11-01](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/11/01/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-11-15](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/11/15/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-11-29](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/11/29/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-12-13](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/12/13/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) | [2021-12-27](https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2021/12/27/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt) |

