(dmb-expectations)=
# DMB application expectations

```{note}
[Source page](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobieBasak/DMB/Expectations)

Note, I have not touched the wording of this document -- only added formatting
to provide visual markers
```

*Authored by: Robie Basak*

I originally wrote this document specifically for the case of Core Dev
applications. To make it more general, you can read it more generally with the
concession that for applications that request lesser upload privilege, I only
require the subset of these expectations that I think will be relevant to the
majority of your uploads.

These are my personal views on how I assess DMB applications. Remember that I am
just one member of the DMB and this is my personal opinion. Others may have
other views and apply different sets of expectations.

All of this is flexible. No application is exactly the same; everyone's position
is different to some extent. Where a situation calls for different consideration
for some reason, I am happy to consider it. If this applies to you, please make
sure to explain in your application how you think you need different
consideration.

**"Need to unblock" principle**: remember that the DMB normally approves
applications either to reduce contributor friction in needing sponsorship or to
save the work of sponsors. I expect a Core Dev applicant to have an existing
track record of sponsored uploads to packages to which direct upload access is
requested.

**Cultural fit**: my understanding of our development process and the Ubuntu
{ref}`Code of Conduct <code-of-conduct>` is that all actions by Ubuntu
developers require consensus, but this consensus can be implicit or explicit.
Most of the work we do has implicit consensus that we receive through our mutual
understanding as we work together in our teams, and this is essential to make
progress. This relies on individual developers understanding when other team
members will have no objection, and on being active in seeking consensus when
this is not the case. I don't specifically expect evidence of this, but I do
take into account any information I have on this aspect.

**Communication**: you're proposing to join a team of developers working
together on a common project. I therefore expect you to be in regular contact
with developers, as appropriate to your focus, both in relation to your work and
in helping others. This would be with all developers generally for a Core Dev
application, but my bar lowers the more limited upload permissions the
application requests. Since Ubuntu is developed in public, I expect these
communications to be in an appropriate public channel, and I can therefore
assess this directly. Generally this means that you should be active in the
public mailing lists, Discourse, and Matrix rooms. If you are unknown or
inactive in the appropriate public Ubuntu development channels, this will score
negatively in my assessment of your application.

**For Canonical employees**: I look for an ability to negotiate the distinction
between Ubuntu governance and Canonical priorities. Sometimes these can appear
to collide and it needs a certain level of diplomacy to find a solution that
works well for both sides. Again, I don't specifically expect evidence of this
but more information gives me more confidence in making a decision.

Usually I'd expect DMB members who are still active in Ubuntu development to
have interacted extensively with prospective Core Devs which can help inform my
last three points.

I expect evidence of a thorough understanding and experience in Debian packaging,
of course.

Then there's the technical Ubuntu-specific side: I expect a demonstrated
understanding of Ubuntu-specific processes such as Ubuntu package merges, SRUs,
the release cycle, milestones and exceptions, autopkgtest and proposed migration,
handling transitions, the operation of the seeds and MIRs. I don't necessarily
expect detailed direct experience in all of these, but I do expect to see direct
and deep experience of at least some of them and a general understanding of most
of them.

In addition I would expect a Core Dev applicant to either: (a) be an already
experienced Ubuntu uploader through one of the other uploading teams such as a
packageset or MOTU; or (b) present an exceptionally strong application to go
direct to Core Dev. In the case of (a), the previous upload history will allow
me to assess the application in detail. Failing that, a string of sponsorships
and endorsements from a wide range of existing uploaders that includes some
respected names would give me confidence in (b).

I expect endorsements from your existing sponsors. It's important to distinguish
between work that required substantial input from a sponsor before it was ready,
and work that was already good when first proposed and that sponsors had little
to improve upon. In the former case, approving an application would not be
appropriate; I only want to to approve applications where the latter cases have
applied for a while. As it isn't possible to distinguish the two cases from
sponsored uploads alone, I look at endorsements and review comments to make up
for that. Review iteration often happens out of band, so the lack of review
comments doesn't automatically imply the latter case. Since sponsors who don't
think you're ready yet generally prefer to say nothing rather than publish a
negative endorsement, the lack of endorsements from a substantial proportion of
your sponsors is a red flag.

