(packaging-llvm)=
# LLVM packaging guide


## Getting set up

### The Ubuntu source code

The package definitions live in this Launchpad repository:
https://code.launchpad.net/~canonical-foundations/+git/llvm-toolchain

Once you have that cloned, you'll want to set up a second remote, which tracks the Debian upstream packaging files. It's also advisable to not fetch tags from this new remote, as they are not useful and pollute the namespace. You can achieve that as follows:

```none
git remote add debian-pkg https://salsa.debian.org/pkg-llvm-team/llvm-toolchain.git
git config remote.debian-pkg.tagOpt --no-tags
git fetch debian-pkg
```

### Branch and tag model

The branch models is intended to work with multiple repositories and notions of upstream simultaneously.  So branches take the following forms:

- `upstream/<LLVM_VERSION>`: branches that are generated by `gbp import-orig`, keeping track of the actual LLVM project sources by major version, e.g. `upstream/19`.
- `debian/<LLVM_VERSION>`: copies of Debian's packaging from their (Salsa repo)[https://salsa.debian.org/pkg-llvm-team/llvm-toolchain]. Should be periodically updated from that remote.
- `ubuntu/<LLVM_VERSION>/<UBUNTU_RELEASE>`: branch from the `debian/<LLVM_VERSION>` branches, and track Ubuntu-specific packaging fixes.
- `pristine-tar` is a single branch that keeps track of all the metadata needed to recreate the bit-perfect orig tarballs from the code in `upstream/<LLVM_VERSION>`.

The repo also makes use of tags. There are three kinds (assuming you're skipping the ones from the upstream Debian remote):
- `ubuntu/<LLVM_VERSION>/<UBUNTU_RELEASE>-base` are tags that represent the commit in the matching `debian/<LLVM_VERSION>` that we branched from. These are useful for when the git history is complex and `git merge-base` may return unexpected results. These need to be managed manually.
- `upstream/<LLVM_VERSION.X.Y>` these tags are created automatically when importing a tarball. They represent points in the branch history where specific versions were imported, in case there's a reason to go back and use that.
- [TODO] release tags

The `main` branch you start with just contains some reusable patch files.  To progress with building, you'll probably want to checkout something like `ubuntu/19/noble`.

:::{important}
This repository sometimes has branches with no file overlap at all, which can mean that switching branches will leave stuff scattered around that git is afraid to remove.  Generally speaking, if you switch branches and see things you don't expect, you probably want to `git clean -fd`. But be careful, this will delete files!
:::

### Set the `SKIP_COMMON_PACKAGES` variable

In `debian/rules` you'll see an environment variable called `SKIP_COMMON_PACKAGES`.
This variable determines whether or not to build the packages listed in the `debian/packages.common file`, which are all things that the LLVM package could theoretically build, but sometimes doesn't want to, as they are un-versioned.
They are all runtime libraries, and upstream LLVM makes guarantees about ABI stability for them.
That means if we have two LLVM packages, say 19 and 20, and 20 is building those libraries, we can choose to skip them in 19 and just rely on the versions produced by 20 already in the archive.
Generally, we need to set this according to whether we're working on the default version of LLVM or a different one, since we likely want the default package to produce those.

For some reason, the environment variables are harcoded in `debian/rules` after the correct values are detected.  That means we want to find this chunk of code, and where appropriate, comment it out or remove it.

```bash
# set these when building without the common packages
SKIP_COMMON_PACKAGES = yes
NEW_LLVM_VERSION = 21
```

That should allow you to re-generate the `debian/control` file.

### Regenerating the `debian/control` file

This file is not always in the right state upstream, so we need to regenerate it after we implement the common package fix. The `README` says to use the `preconfigure` target, but it appears to actually be the `stamps/preconfigure` target. You should just need:

```bash
debian/rules stamps/preconfigure
```

There's a good chance, if you're building directly from the upstream packaging files that you'll get an error when you run that preconfigure target around not having `wasi-libc` installed. There's some conditional code that disables the WASM support for older distros (Jammy, for instance), but when WASI is supported (Noble onwards), it expects that to be installed. It's a build-dependency, so I find it annoying that it's required here. You can either install `wasi-libc` on your host system, or you can delete the following lines from `debian/rules`:

```bash
	else \
		if ! dpkg -l|grep -q wasi-libc; then \
			echo "Could not find wasi-libc on the system"; \
			echo "Please check that the package is available on the system"; \
			echo "it might be that the 'hello' package is installed by another constraint"; \
			exit 1; \
		fi; \
	fi
```

## Building the package

Once set up, you should be able to use you preferred tools. Generally the `debian/gbp.conf` file will set a builder, so you can try just `gbp buildpackage`, once you've exported the orig tarball.

### Orig Tarball

This repo uses `pristine-tar` to avoid needing to constantly download giant tarballs or store them as blobs. You should always be able to generate the bit-perfect tarball for your Ubuntu branch, assuming your `debian/gbp.conf` is pointing to the right upstream branch, by simply doing:

```none
$ gbp export-orig
```

### Building the source package

Now you should be able to just do a `dpkg-buildpackage -S -nc` to build the source package as usual, for pushing to a PPA.

### Building the binary package locally

As mentioned, `gbp buildpackage` is probably enough, which gets set in `debian/gbp.conf`.  If you want to invoke sbuild yourself, that's fine too:

```none
$ sbuild -Ad noble
```
